We are now in pretty good shape for
diving into these serverless functions.
So serverless functions are our new thing
to Gatsby, not a new thing in general.
So if you look at, like,
when the jam stack came out as
a general architecture, right,
there's this idea of precompile things
decouple your front end serve it on a CDN.
These are such powerful concepts, but
there are things that you'll need to do.
That can't be done client site,
you'll find yourself in a situation
where you need to, for example,
process a form input, or
send off an authenticated call to an API.
If you're working with
a third party service,
you wanna make a request to auth zero
to see if somebody is logged in.
I'm gonna get a token
that has to be private.
Can't put that in my client side code.
So that creates a lot of challenges for
front end developers because you'd
find yourself standing up a server.
For one thing, like all I need
to do is make this auth call,
but I have to stand up a whole server for
this.
And there's a lot of boilerplate that goes
into it, like it's, and it's not just
the code, standing up an express server
is pretty fast if you've done it before.
Or if you look at FASTA phi or
some of the other options out there,
they've made it very straightforward.
So this isn't knocking on the technology,
it's more that after you
build your Express server, so
you write that boilerplate, right?
You've got to set up the server,
you've got to set up routing,
you've got to do all of that.
Then you have to get
that deployed somewhere.
So you need to figure out
how do I get a node service.
Deployed to the internet, okay.
Well to do that,
I probably need to install like Docker or
something because I'm gonna need to
deploy this out to whatever service.
And if it's gonna scale, I need to be
able to deploy it to a lot of machines.
And while, if I want to be able to
do that, maybe I need Kubernetes and
suddenly You're so
far away from the original problem.
You started out trying
to handle an auth call.
That was what you wanted
to do is send an auth call.
And you've moved three,
four steps deeper into the stack,
trying to figure out how to make sure
this auth call is globally available.
And it's gonna stand up to your launch day
traffic because you took out a giant ad
somewhere in New York Expecting hundreds
of 1000s of people to try this at once.
There's all these things that
just start to pile up, and
suddenly you're not doing the job.
You're doing all this Yak
shaving to get you to the job.
And that is not fun,
that's not what we wanna do.
That's not how we wanna spend our time.
So instead, we want to be looking at how
can we just do the thing we came to do.
And that's where serverless functions
emerged as a really good pattern,
especially for jam stack sites.
Because in the vast majority of cases,
you have one off server needs,
make this off call, process this form.
Pull this image that only comes from
a like a you wanna circumvent cores,
something like that where
you wanna do a thing.
You can't do it on the client,
you don't wanna stand up a server.
A server less function lets you write
just a little bit of code that is server.
And then it will automatically deploy and
scale and
do all the stuff that it needs to do.
So all you have to do is actually write
the little bit of code that you need.
That is the power of this, right?
I as a front end developer or
front end focus developer.
I spend most of my time building for
the web.
I can and I have done DevOps things.
I can muddle my way through
whatever tutorial to figure out how
to scale a server and
make sure it doesn't fall down.
It's not what I'm best at,
it's not even a thing that I would
say that I'm particularly good at.
It's just a thing I can do.
Writings node logical I'm good at that,
that's like I can write JavaScript logic
that is absolutely within my wheelhouse.
So if I can just do that part, and
then all the OPSI things happen for
me as part of deploying
a serverless function.
Suddenly I have a lot of capabilities
that I otherwise would have talked
myself out of.
Well, I'm not gonna deploy
this image service,
because I don't wanna set up a server for
it.
Or it would cost me a lot of money to
run a server that could handle this
type of work.
So I'm gonna skip this project Now with
serverless, like servos, deploys for free.
You can get a whole lot of serverless you,
before it starts to cost you money.
So suddenly I'm unblocked,
I can have a lot of ideas.
I can try a lot of weird stuff,
and it's fast.
I can deploy it,
I can get a serverless function deployed.
Actually, why don't we just write
our first serverless function and
just look at how fast this is to do.
So I'm in my source folder,
I'm gonna create API and
let's just do like a hello dot j s.
And for this to work,
we go export default function handler.
This is gonna give us a request and
a response object and
I can send back something
like requests and okay.
Right now this is not a particularly
fancy setup but if I run my server now.
Because we're using Gatsby functions, and
because nullified of can recognize that
and run everything, we're able to locally
work with server light capabilities.
And then when we deploy this,
it's also just it's gonna just work.
And so Gatsby sets us up where we
go to API, and then I go to hello.
It says OK and if I go in here and
change it and I can say hello,
front end masters, and
I'm gonna refresh this and there we go.
So I'm now locally developing with, node.
If you've seen express before,
this is kind of the express.
Pattern where you get the request and
the response object, and
then you can do whatever you want with it.
And like if we wanted to send back JSON,
we can just say,
the message is Hello front end masters,
and now we got JSON back.
So we can do,
there's a lot here a lot that we're
capable of doing without
having to learn a lot and
without having to figure out like,
if I push this, it's just gonna be live.
I don't have to deploy it.
I don't have to scale it, I don't have to
think about what my uptime guarantees are.
This is just up and running, and it's
globally available, and it's fast, and
I'm happy.
So that's the power of what we're doing
here is we're really unlocking a whole
new area of innovation for web developers
by introducing these serverless functions.
So if you've never tried them before,
you looked at them,
you thought they were too hard, or it was
just, I don't wanna learn another thing.
It's too late you already learned it,
I'm sorry.
And now you can do it, so
don't let this block you anymore.
Go out there and try stuff,
go build some ambitious things.